---
id: about
sidebar_position: 0
hide_table_of_contents: true
title: Driver Adapters
description: In dbVisitor data is typically queried based on object mapping, but in some special cases, specific interfaces can be implemented to determine how data is acquired.
---

:::tip[Hint]
This article is generated by AI translation.
:::

dbVisitor adapters were introduced starting from version 6.1.0 as an important component. It provides a flexible JDBC driver adapter implementation designed to abstract the implementation details of JDBC drivers, enabling non-relational databases to be quickly integrated into JDBC-based applications via a request/response model.
As a general JDBC driver adapter, it primarily solves the following core problems:
- Simplifying Driver Implementation: By abstracting the complexity of JDBC interfaces, it makes it easier for developers to implement JDBC compatibility layers for various data sources.
- Non-relational Database Integration: Allows non-relational databases (NoSQL) to be accessed in the form of standardized JDBC interfaces.
- Integration with dbVisitor Framework: Collaborates with the dbVisitor framework through standardized JDBC interfaces to simplify database access operations.

## User Guide

- Provided Adapters
  - **[jdbc-redis](./redis/about)** is a JDBC driver adapter for Redis, allowing developers to operate the database using standard JDBC interfaces and Redis commands.
  - **[jdbc-mongo](./mongo/about)** is a JDBC driver adapter for MongoDB, allowing developers to operate the database using standard JDBC interfaces and MongoDB commands.
  - **[jdbc-elastic](./elastic/about)** is a JDBC driver adapter for ElasticSearch, allowing developers to operate data using standard JDBC interfaces and ElasticSearch native QueryDSL commands.
- Developing New Adapters
  - **[Custom Adapter](./dev/about)** Learn how to develop a custom JDBC driver adapter to implement a JDBC compatibility layer for your own database.
